%iZ:%?\ 3,, G) i. M  in

HI$T.ORY
or
THE

HUGHES'fFAMILY

O

The Hughes arrived at Montreal the sixth of March, eighteen hundred
and fortynine in the twelfth year of the "Reign of Queen Victoria".
Recorded the twentieth of March eighteen-hundred and fortynine, Lot
Number Thirteen", in the "Sixth Concession of Township of Portland", in
the Midiand District for the sum of thirty-three pounds.

John Hughes

This is copied from the original deed which was written on a sheepskin
tissue-like hiece of material. I copied it from my father's deed the day I
signed off the glace in July, 1961. It burned at the time of the fire in
September, 1962. Recorded Clear Deed Grant to John Hughes, June 20th, 1899
for 88 acres Concession V. (This is, I presume, Uncle Edgar's farm.)

Minnie Hegadornh

-2-

John Hughes Sr., my Great Grandfather and family came from the "County of
Down", Patrick, Ireland in the year 1822. The family included his wife, one
girl and two boys, Hannah 9, John 2, and Alexander an infant who died from

exposure during the trip. He was buried beside the road between Harper's

Corner and Cataraqui. The County bought the burying ground to rebuild the %Zmk\.

road. His body was exhumed and re-buried in what is now Cataraqui Cemetery..
They had three girls born in Canada; Eliza, Suzanne and Francissa. Their
mother's maiden name was Anna Laze and by coincidence her mother's maiden name
was Hughes.

They came from Ireland in a mast boat, and were seven weeks on the ocean.
They came directly to Kingston and from there to Sydenham in a horse stage
to the County of Spaffordton where they met an oxen stage and changed. The
horse stage returned to Kingston. They lived in Sydenham four years in front
of what is now the Anglican Church. He worked for Hazy Purdy a wood-ranger
who found this lot that wasn't staked. He looked over the lot and on returning
home told John Hughes. The next day John Hughes came over and put his initials
on a stake, claiming the land. The next day he walked to Kingston and bought
it from "Sir Henry Smith" Premier of Canada, for a dollar an acre plus interest,
sixty-six acres in all. He died before he had it'paid and John Hughes Jr.
finished paying for it. That same summer he went out to the farm and cleared
a place large enough to build a shanty. The next spring they moved out to
the farm. About ten years later he built a log house and log barn. The
shanty was where the drive shed now stands. They built the cabin south of it
and the barn north of it. when the country was surveyed the concession came
out about eight rods south of the buildings, therefore a lane was built. In
1857 he built a large barn. At that time it was the largest barn around.
Over 100 men came to the barn-raising. Many were so interested that they came
and helped without being asked. The chickens for the dinner were cooked in
a large cooler outside. Both John and Anna Hughes died before John Jr. built
this new barn. Hannah married George B. Snyder. Later he fell from another
barn that was being raised on a very windy day, hurting himself seriously.
Shortly after he died insane. He was a weaver by trade. His wife took over
the weaving and supported her four boys and one girl; John, William, Jim,
Edward and Catharine for a short time.i Then the family was divided. Hannah
and Ed came back to the homestead; Jacob Snider brother of George, took John;

George Asseletine took Billy; Joe Si Taylor took Jimmy and Jim Wells took the

- 3 _

girl Catharine. Ed married and moved to Meaford. Jim later went to Meaford.
John and William signed up for the American war. John was never heard of
again and Billy was killed. Catharine married Anson Charlton and lived her
entire life in the Harrowsmith area.. Hannah died at the homestead some time.
later. M

Francissa was a maiden who never left the homestead and died when she
was about 35 years.o1d. H 1

Eliza married James Bradford and had four boys and three girls. They
were William, Thomas, John'S., Alvin, Charlotte, Minnie and Elisabeth. Theyahe
farmed about 1 mile from the ughes homestead; .She lived and died in this N.
vicinity. _Thomas lived on the Bradford homestead and had three children,Ella," I it
Florence and Melville. M ,= 7i  A . ,u:a1}"_Qi .27, ha "

John S. lived_and died in the Verona area._ He had three boys and twoyy I

irls, Clinton, Floyd, John, Lillie and Laura. William lived and worked on
the farms with his brother Thomas. In middle age he sold his farm to his bro-
ther and moved to Kingston where he died. He was a bachelor until after his
move to Kingston where he married a middle aged lady. A I

Alvin went west at an early age and I have no data on his family.

Charlotte married Reuben Garrison and spent her entire life in the Petworth.
Yarker area. They had four children, two boys John and David, and two girls
Eliza and Lena. I I. I

Elizabeth married a man by the name of Mr. Hall and sent her life in
Utica, New York. .I have no record of her family. M 4: A at

Minnie married Wilfred Huffman and had three boys, Hurrelle, Kenneth and
Laverne. She lived and died in the Moscow area. I have no further data con-
cerning the family. M I I

Suzanne married Thomas Watson and moved to Meaford. She had seven children,
John, Sarah, William, Thomas, George, Martha and Cecel a. I have no more data
on them. H? A

John Hughes rode horseback to court Mary Randolph who lived on Quobin Road
near Odessa. They_married and had seven children,five boys and two girls,.
James Albert, Melissa, John, Anson, cythiai Edgar and George. Theyjgrew up
on the homestead with their parents. uiy MA   C

James Albert married Elizabeth Grainger from Elginburg and had three
children, a daughter who died in childhood and two sons Elmer and John. John

Hughes bought James Albert the second farm to the east when he married. He then

-4-

bought the farm next to it for Anson. Anson was a carpenter by trade. He
married Allie Hartman and had two daughters. Grace married Joe Hawkey and
Myrtle married Percy Shibley. Anson sold his farm to James Albert his brother.
moved to Harrowsmith, built some houses, sold them and moved to Odessa. His

wife died and he remarried in old age._ He died at the age of 99 years in

sydenham where he had been living with his daughter Grace.

Melissa married Joe Hartman, Allie's brother, and moved to holingbrook.
They had three sons and three daughters, Damon,_Josie, John, Maud, Mary and
Minnie. She died at about 38. Damon married Della McEwen and lived at
Tichborne. Josie died young at Kingston in 1922. John married Grace Clow of
Tichborne. Maud married Robert Norris of Perth. Mary marriedBill Wright of
Odessa and Minnie married Jim Harrison of Kingston.

John Jr., 11 months younger than Anson, married Charlotte Brown, Moscow.
His father John Hughes hought him a farm south of his land with the house on
the Colebrook Road. He had four boys and five girls; Earl, Roy, Cecil, Russell,
Lilly, Edith, Jennie, Mabel and Bertie. I have very little information about
them.

Cynthia married William Ashley and had two daughters Minnie and Violet.
They lived at Petworth. Minnie died at age 3 and Violet at 18. She later
married Frank Walker, Harrowsmith. She died on the homestead.

Edgar married Pheohe Carr, Petworth. They moved in the homestead with his
parents John and Mary Sr., and brother George in the year 1885. Mary the mother
died in 1899. John died in 1906. After Mary's death_they moved half the barn
from the homestead across the road to Concession V and built a large new home
for Edgar and Pheobe. They had no children and both died in this house, Pheobe
in 1938 and Edgar in 1946. George and his father lived alone in the big house
on the original homestead for a couple of years. iGeorge married Ella Barr on

November 18, 1908. They had two daughters, Gladys born August 25, 1909 and

Minnie born October 10, 1911. Gladys married Gerald Huffman on November 1, 1932.

They had four sons and one daughter, Ronald, Wendell, Rubena, Gary and Lionel.
Ronald lives at home. Wendell married Vera Shillington, Bath and lives at
Petworth, Rubena married Clifford Davis, Harrowsmith and lives in Toronto. Gary
married Donna Irwin, Odessa and lives in Belleville, and Lionel lives in Harrow
smith. Minnie married James Hegadorn, Odessa on September 1, 1931 and they have
two sons and two daughters, Walter, June, David and Carol. Walter (Reverend)

married June Wagar, Colebrook and presently lives at Seeleys Bay. June married

Jack Purvis, Glenvale and lives in Kingston. David lives in Kingston and Carol
lives in Killaloe.

Ella Barr Hughes'died May 15, 1922 with TIE. George Hughes lived on the
homestead until his death July 13, 1960 at the age of 94. iHis daughter Gladys
and her husband lived with him and continued living there until September, 1962
when the house burned. They sold the farm in 1965 to Arthur Leeman. In 1978
he sold it to Knud Norgaard who has built a new home just west of the foundation
of the original big house. The original home had 2 halls 7' wide, 7 bedrooms,

living room and dining room each 17' x 17', kitchen 18' x 20', pantry, dormer eke
'  buH+

room and a large two storey woodhouse. There were 2 cellars, in addition to a h 7
 Ouse.

third cellar, which was never used, under the kitchen.

Written by Mo Hegadorn in 1979.

-6-

some Events.of Pioneer Days

when Mr. Hughes bought the land, the first thing he did was to get the
land cleared in preparation to sow wheat and barley to contribute to his living.
They sold the good timber and then piled the scrub trees and brush in a pile
and burned it. They had built a stone ash house and this they filled with the
ashes. When the ash house was full they would sell them to Mr. Sydney Warner
and Mr. Sam Stewart of Harrowsmith who made potash. Mr. Hughes would take
this money and buy flour and vegetables. Once the land was cleared, they 4
raised wheat for their own flour and corn for cornmeal. They made a hoe
shaped from a board to rake the ashes. when they first came they had to build
a log building which came out at the top to put their sheep in at night to
protect them from wolves. ~Grandfather Hughes had a dog called "Captain". The
children played on a large stone until the wolves eyes shone in the dark, then
they would run into the shanty. Wolves attacked Captain one night and tried to
break into the shanty." They succeeded in keeping them away from the window and
d.or but next morning Cap's mangled body was found in front of the door. Both
Mr. Fughes Sr. and my grandfather carried all the wool sheared from the sheep
and the wheat to be ground to Yarker on their back.

Harrowsmith consisted at that time only of a store built on the corner.
Later a hotel was built and gradually a village named "Spike's Csrners" sprung
um. ' school was then built but John Hughes was too old to go. He had just
gene to school a few weeks in Sydenham before they moved but couid not be
beaten selling grain, making change or doing any kind of mental Figuring.
Hannah the oldest girl had a good education as she had gone three years in
Ireland and finished her education in Sydenham. John Hughes courted his wife
on horseback. She was Mary Ann Randolph of Odessa. They became friends when
Mary Ann came to visit her friends "The Snyders" who lived close by.

When crossing the Atlantic a large vessel tried to sink their small vessel
to keep them from settling in Canada.

My uncle, Anson Hughes when he was eighty, related this to me shortly
after we were married when,I visited him at his home in about 1933.

l Minnie Hegadorn

August 18, 1979

